The Washington Post is out with a
sweeping look at president runs Trump's
month-long attempts to reopen the
economy amid the corona virus pandemic
in interviews with eighty-two
administration officials the post
outlines a story of desperation and
dysfunction with a detailed look at what
took place in the 34 days between March
29th when Trump agreed to extend social
distancing guidelines - this past week
during that time the post notes that
Trump was so determined to extinguish
the deadly virus that he repeatedly
embraced fantasy cure-alls
and tuned out both the reality that the
first wave has yet to significantly
recede and the possibility of a
potentially worst second wave in the
fall according to the paper in early
April tensions were growing between the
doctors and scientists advising the
response and the president's economic
and political aides despite having no
expertise in epidemiology White House
economic advisor Kevin Hassett built an
ik econometric model to guide response
operations which was embraced inside the
West Wing by the president's son-in-law
Jared Kushner and other powerful aides
for Trump the analysis provided
justification to pivot to where he
preferred to be cheering an economic
revival rather than managing a
catastrophic health crisis three
administration senior administration
officials tell the Post that the task
force members with medical degrees
including dr. deborah birx and dr.
anthony pouchy splintered off in mid to
late March and began meeting almost
daily some of them were distressed by
what one official dubbed the voodoo
discussed within the broader task force
this is like as sad as it gets
Joe in terms of having a president who
actually wants to manage a crisis versus
really appealing to his basic
deep-seated quite frankly some might say
nasty instincts to try and win
politically well
forget about the politics of this I mean
residence 808 maybe he doesn't care a
bit again what is so maddening is that
is a I've said repeatedly mr. president
yeah
the best healthcare option is the best
economic option you never get it's the
best political option you see I I've
been telling you this and I know your
watch I've been telling you this mr.
president now for what a month two
months the best healthcare option what's
best for Americans health is best for
the American economy because it allows
small businesses to get back to work is
best for your political standing but you
still don't get it
and Peter Baker this Washington Post
report it really does lay it out well
the times have done some great reports
like this as well but it talks about
these fantasy cure-alls that the
president has kept pushing first it was
April warm weather in April then it was
hydroxychloroquine and and and then it
was bleach are disinfectants and lights
and in and in those last two cases the
government Trump's under administration
had to come out and warn Americans not
to do that but I love how they put it
and it's really this if we can break it
down to senior citizens who are being
lied to by this administration and
governors who being pressured by this
administration this president is lying
about the first wave as acting as if
it's over the first wave as we would say
in Florida it's still breaking it's
still cresting the first people are
still dying
the president's shocked he's basically
doubled in two weeks how many people he
said could die from this in two weeks
and he's denying that a second wave is
coming it is it is it is remarkable that
the president keeps making these
mistakes who is in charge other than the
president is there anybody else does
Jared Kushner have the president's here
dude is dr. Falchi have the president's
ear anymore
does dr. Burks have the president
here like who has a presence here to say
you know mr. president last two weeks
that you've been pushing to reopen your
estimates have gone from fifty thousand
to a hundred thousand dead in two weeks
who's talking to him
why are you everybody's talking to him
but it depends on on how he takes the
information look well you're right about
the fall that's an important point here
where are we going to be at this point
in September which is important not just
for his political career but for
obviously the country as a whole for for
these schools and campuses that want to
reopen for businesses that would like to
bring people back and if there's a
second wave that has anything like the
first way which historically is what
we've seen that's what we saw in the
1918 pandemic that not only will as you
point out be a health care crisis it
will also destroy confidence in the
ability to come back to work and the
ability to go back out and shop and it
lived life as you pointed out the the
health crisis is connected directly to
the economic crisis you can't fix the
economy without having the public at
least confident that the health part of
it is fixed as well you do hear the
president pivot a little bit about that
last night in the past few days he was
saying well there Polly there could be
there won't be maybe there will be there
won't be another wave in the fall but if
there are embers we'll put them out as
if it was simply a small threat last
night he just said well it could be a
fire we'll have to put out a fire and I
think that's what the health experts
have been telling that could be it may
not be just embers it could be a fire
doctor pouchy has been quoted on record
saying that it could be you know a very
serious threat in a second wave in this
fall and that's what he worries about as
we're eager to reopen our own life
thanks for checking out MSNBC on YouTube
and make sure you subscribe to stay
up-to-date on the day's biggest stories
and you can click on any of the videos
around us to watch more four Morning Joe
and MSNBC thanks so much for watching